Figure S1. (A) The inoculated original Lactobacillus plantarum HNU082 strains in vitro in the MRS broth were sequencing on the day 7, 14, 21 and 28 as control. During the in vitro incubation period, no SNP was annotated in these strains. (B) The temporal pattern of reads coverage of 2 mobile elements inserted in Lactobacillus plantarum HNU082 during its colonization in the gut of the human and mouse. The x-axis represents the duration of probiotic colonization, while the y-axis represents the log-transformed read coverage of each mobile element that can be inserted into the probiotic genome. Mobile Element 023 and 027 were identified in the plasmid 4 of this probiotic strain.
Figure S2. A) The heatmap of SNPs detected and verified in all isolates. B) The predictive protein structure of 5 parallel evolutionary genes. (C) The isolates phenotypic verification experiments related to trehalose utilization. No significant difference in trehalose utilization was found between the original strain and the mutational isolates.
Figure S3. Phylogenetic tree constructed based on the all Lactobacillus plantarum HNU082 isolates in each time point. The number in tree branches represented the branch lengths among the isolates.
Figure S4. The indigenous microbiome responded to the probiotic invasion. The principal coordinate analysis based on intestinal microbial taxonomic Aitchison distance of the human and mouse model in probiotic and placebo groups. A) The points in the same color represented the samples collected from the same subjects in different time points; B) The points in the same color represent the samples collected from the same time points. (C) The survival of Lactobacillus plantarum HNU082 in the host gut during colonization. (D) The influences of the probiotic consumed on the indigenous intestinal microbiome were correlated with its duration of colonization but not its abundance of survival. (E) The Bray-Curtis distance between the samples in baseline and other time points both in the human and mouse model. The colored points represented the samples at different time points. We found that interindividual heterogeneity in human gut microbiota is greatest among those in the gut microbiota of all host models. (F) The significantly changed intestinal species responded to Lactobacillus plantarum HNU082 consumption between the human and mouse models. (G) The significantly changed intestinal microbial metabolic pathways responded to Lactobacillus plantarum HNU082 consumption in the mouse model.
Figure S5. (A) The number of SNPs of host intestinal microbiota responded to probiotic consumption in the present study and other published probiotic related studies. (B) The correlation between the number of SNP and the changes in the species Shannon index.
